# Fundamentals

## What is SSI

Self-sovereign identity \(SSI\) gives individuals or organizations the ability tocontrol their identity information. SSI acknowledges that identity is about muchmore than logging in. Identity can be expanded to other uses by usingverifiable attestations, called credentials, to prove things about yourself suchas that you are a university diploma owner or that you are eligible toparticipate to an e-voting process. SSI uses verifiable, trustworthy credentialsfor the aforementioned use cases, meaning that the requestor of suchcredentials can cryptographically verify the claimed attestations. Identityowners autonomously use those credentials wherever they want and consentis requested whenever their information is to be accessed. Privacy is a criticalfeature of SSI because, without privacy, there is no control nor security. InSSI, the identity owner stays in control of who sees what. This represents amonumental shift in how identity functions on the internet and combined withblockchain technology an ecosystem of data sovereignty is now possible.

## CERTH SSI

Token's CERTH SSI implementation is a platform in which a user can register, get a DID and request credentials. The user can have their credentials stored in their wallet and access them quickly and easily, without downloading any special software. Thus, CERTH’s SSI is functioning as a service \(SSIaS\). This solution removes the burden of e-government bodies to maintain their own servers, storage or even custom software as all these functionalities are provided out of the box. In this direction, any organization, agency, municipality and governmental service in general can take advantage of the unique characteristics of SSI at no cost and at no time! Following you can find more details how is this achieved and you if you are a public sector service you can apply [https://ssi.token.iti.gr/apply](https://ssi.token.iti.gr/apply) to help you integrate the SSI to any service you require registration/login/verification for user identities. Alternatively, just send us an email at sterzi@iti.gr.
